[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA GARR: Hi, I'm Lisa Garr,
host of "Gaiam Inspirations."
The Passion Test is
a very powerful tool
to help you discover what
you want in your life.
And joining me today
is Janet Attwood.
She's the co-creator
of the Passion Test.
And she's here to talk about
what it means to really live
an adventure-filled life of
passion for what you absolutely
love to do.
Welcome to the show.
>>JANET ATTWOOD: Thanks, Lisa.
I've been so looking
forward to being with you.
>>LISA: I'm excited.
Yes.
>>JANET: Because you're
the epitome of passion.
>>LISA: Well--
>>JANET: So thank you.
Really, you really are.
You're the epitome of someone
who's living a passionate life.
You're happy, you're up, you're
excited, you give energy,
and you're filled with
joy, so thank you.
>>LISA: I love what I do.
I do.
I really--
>>JANET: That's clear.
>>LISA: Because I get to
talk with people like you.
So you, by the way,
Miss Visionary,
have created such an incredible
thing with the Passion Test.
It's all over the world now,
with how many facilitators?
>>JANET: Almost 1,500 now.
>>LISA: Wow.
>>JANET: Yeah.
>>LISA: Teaching it
all over the world.
And it's-- how did the
Passion Test come to you?
How did you come upon
this incredible system
for people discovering
their passions?
>>JANET: Well, I was actually
sitting in a seminar,
and this woman, Debra
Poneman, started
talking about a survey that
had been given to the 100 most
successful people in
the United States.
And at the time I had
actually lied and called in
to work sick to
be at that seminar
because my life was at the low.
I was recruiting
disk drive engineers
in Silicon Valley, California.
I wasn't making any money.
I was failing miserably.
I felt like my ego
was totally destroyed.
I found out about her
seminar, and I called in sick,
went to her seminar, sat
down in the front row,
and she started talking
about a survey that
had been given to these
100 most successful people.
And she said the one thing
that all of these people
have in common-- the most
successful people in the United
States had-- was they were all
living what they considered
to be their top five passions.
>>LISA: Huh.
>>JANET: And when she said
that, I was like, oh my God.
OK, that's it.
She went on to talk
about, and now, dressing
for success, right?
And I'm like, sitting there--
you know those moments when
someone's talking and they say
something, and it's like, bam!
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>JANET: And I am like,
OK, that's it, that's it.
If I could figure out what my
100-- what my top five passions
are, I'd be like all those
100 most successful people.
And that was the birth, in
that moment, many years back
of what is now
known as the number
one tool all over the
world, the Passion Test.
>>LISA: Oh, and I mean, I
know many of the facilitators,
and they love what they do.
I mean, they are
living their passions
at the same time as teaching
other people, of course, which
is the way it's supposed to be.
>>JANET: Well,
you know, why it's
so much fun for
my facilitators--
and I call them mine.
They're not my coauthor Chris
Attwood's, they're mine.
Anyway, it's because it's a tool
that's for everyone, absolutely
across the board.
It's something that
people always-- when
you get more clear
on what is it you
care about in all the different
areas of your life, which
the Passion Test
helps people to do,
then you're always going to find
you're upgrading, upgrading.
And so-- and since it's
all-- since the whole process
and the whole program
that my facilitators teach
is all about everyone
else, in other words,
they give instruction.
They say, here's how to
do it, here's what you do.
Then everyone gets to jump
in and involve themself,
and that makes it a ton of fun.
Because it's all
about you, right?
>>LISA: It's all about them.
So let's talk about what it is.
What is the Passion Test?
And we're going to kind of
go through this a little bit
here on the show, too, so
people can experience it.
>>JANET: I love that.
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>JANET: OK, so it's one
exercise after the other,
after the other to
gain a level of clarity
that you've never before had.
And so, you know, what we
say in the Passion Test,
we have this beautiful
quote-- "When you are clear,
what you choose to have
show up in your life, will.
And only to the extent
that you're clear.
That clarity is power."
So we have the first step
is this process where
we help people to come up with--
through an actual illumination
process-- to their top five
passions, just like I did,
right.
That was the first
thing that, when I went,
oh my God, I got
to figure out that.
So that's the first step,
getting them clear--
>>LISA: What were your
top five at the time?
>>JANET: At the time?
God, let's see, at the
time it was probably like,
having a great
lover, boyfriend, I'm
sure, because that's where
I was at at the time.
And I'm sure it was a New
York Times bestselling author,
because I just wanted
to be a New York Times
author, a
transformational leader.
It had to have fun in it.
Now this is a long time ago.
And I'm absolutely
sure it had hanging out
with great friends who
love me that I love.
>>LISA: Oh.
>>JANET: Because those are
the things that matter to me.
>>LISA: And those are probably
the things that you manifested.
>>JANET: Yeah, I manifested
those things, but,
you know, what I
found as I started
manifesting certain ones was
that I had to take the Passion
Test again and, you know,
that after about three
to six months, I
realized I don't know,
how come I'm not choosing
in favor of that?
>>LISA: That's
what happens, huh?
>>JANET: Yeah.
And then I thought, OK, I
have to take this again.
I have to get clear again.
And so what's so great
about the Passion Test,
and we tell people to take
it every three to six months,
is that you keep getting
clearer and clearer and clearer
until you're really
locked, you're
at a lock with
what it is that you
love and are passionate about.
And then after a
while of course,
when you start
fulfilling those things,
you want to look at it again.
And OK, upgrade time.
>>LISA: It shows that
it really works, though.
>>JANET: Yeah, yeah.
>>LISA: So you write
down your top 5
passions and then
what do you do?
>>JANET: Well actually, you
don't write down your top five.
What we tell people
first to do is
you take-- maybe you write down
a list of 10, 15, 20 passions.
And then there's this
elimination process
that we walk people
through to have
them come up with
their top five.
And the reason why
we say top five
is because we've been working
with these neuroscientists
from the University
of Pennsylvania.
And what they found was
that-- and you know this
without the research,
but what they found
was that the mind can only
contain five to seven pieces
of information at any time.
>>LISA: At a time, I see.
>>JANET: Yeah, so that's
why hence the five.
And I mean, I always
say to everybody
when I'm talking
to them, you guys,
you know what overload is like.
I mean, you know what
overload is like, don't you?
>>LISA: Oh, yeah.
>>JANET: OK, let's see,
do you have a cellphone?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>JANET: Do you have an iPad?
>>JANET: Do you have a Mac?
>>LISA: PC.
>>JANET: OK, and
in your car do you
have your whole set up right?
>>LISA: Right.
>>JANET: Right.
And then you've got
even your phone.
Remember those?
The phone?
So I could be on all of my
technology all day long,
and I know everybody I
talk to is just going,
God, yeah, and like,
my brain is fried.
>>LISA: It is, yeah.
>>JANET: Right?
So what's so cool
about the Passion Test
is that when you
get clear on what
it is that you're
passionate about
and you come up
with your top five,
then you can consistently
choose in favor of those things
and it kind of, like,
eliminates the stuff
that you know is just clutter.
Immediately.
Is that in the
direction my passion?
No.
Is that?
>>LISA: So what-- why
is passion so important,
and what do you mean by passion?
I mean, because I have
passion for a lot of things,
and I definitely tend
to get very diffused.
And ADD sets in, and then I
go 15 different directions,
and I get so unfocused.
How do I know which
are my passions?
I think they all are.
>>JANET: Well, yeah.
Well, you might
think they all are.
But if you really
stopped and got clear,
if you really stopped and
started looking at the things
that you were saying
yes to, what you'd find
is that, gosh, I'm
saying yes to things
that have lesser meaning for me.
And I'm doing that--
now and I'm not
going to say you do that, Lisa.
God, I'm sure you're an expert
in living a passionate life,
right?
>>LISA: Ha, ha.
>>JANET: Not you, Not you.
>>LISA: Oh, no.
>>JANET: Oh, but lookit,
I'm still growing in this.
I'm still growing in
this myself, you know.
It's like I have
to say, OK, what
am I more passionate
about, this or this?
And for a lot of
people, they think
they're all that important,
but when you really
start to hone them down--
in the elimination process,
we have three questions.
And we say-- let's say,
for instance-- well,
we'll pretend your two passions
are being present in the moment
and then your other passion
would be spending time
with your family, OK?
>>LISA: OK.
>>JANET: And so I would
say-- the first question
I would ask is, Lisa,
what's more important?
Being present in the moment or
spending time with your family?
>>LISA: I would say being
present in the moment while
spending time with my family.
>>JANET: OK, but here's
the thing-- if you said,
God, being present in the
moment is really important.
Spending time with my
family is really important.
Right?
So I don't really know.
Then I would say, OK, let's
go to question number two.
And question number
two, so this helps
a person who thinks that
everything they're doing
is as important.
>>LISA: Yes, which
is me, totally.
>>JANET: Yeah.
So I would say to yourself, so
Lisa, if you could be present
in the moment but never
spend time with your family--
>>LISA: Oh, no.
>>JANET: -- or if you could
spend time with your family
but never be present in the
moment, which matters most?
>>LISA: I would
have to say family.
>>JANET: OK.
And for some people, they go--
>>LISA: If I have to choose.
>>JANET: God, being
present in the moment
and sitting down with
my family and sometimes
they still don't know.
So then we take them
to another level.
So there's three
questions that we
ask in the Passion Test
of the very first part
of the elimination proc--
of this elimination process.
So the third question would
be, so Lisa, close your eyes.
Imagine that you're being
present in the moment.
See yourself being
>>LISA: OK.
>>JANET: That you're
present at a 10.
There's no room for improvement.
>>LISA: I think I can do that.
>>JANET: Are you there?
>>LISA: Yeah.
>>JANET: OK, but notice
that nowhere in that picture
are you spending time
with your family.
>>LISA: But that
doesn't make any sense.
>>JANET: Now, and then I would
say set that picture aside.
Now, imagine that you're
spending that great time
with your family.
But-- and you're doing that at
a 10, no room for improvement.
But nowhere in that
picture are you
being present in the moment.
>>LISA: That's-- that
doesn't work, either.
>>JANET: Which feels better?
>>LISA: Again, I
go back to, well,
it feels better to
be with my family.
>>JANET: There you
go, end of story.
>>LISA: Yeah, it does.
>>JANET: That's it.
That's it.
>>LISA: I see.
>>JANET: So with every,
yeah, with the Passion Test,
what we do is we go through this
whole process, through 1 to 10,
or 15 passions, or 20 passions
to come up with the top 5.
And for people at
first, they struggle.
>>LISA: Got it.
>>JANET: Oftentimes,
people struggle at first,
like they were like you.
I don't know, God, I don't know.
But the more they take
it, the clearer they get.
The clearer they
get, the more they
hone in on what it is
they care most about.
And let me ask
you this question.
If you were living your top
five passions full out, right?
You were just like, yes,
like, life is so juicy.
How would-- I mean, would
you need anything else?
Think about it.
How cool what would that be?
>>LISA: Sleep, I
would probably need.
But that could be
one of my passions.
>>JANET: That might be
one of your passions.
>>LISA: Exactly.
>>JANET: Which is that I spend
quality time with myself,
with self care, right?
>>LISA: Yes.
That I take--
that I listen to my
body when it needs rest.
That would be a big one.
>>JANET: So that's
the first-- I said
there's all these
different exercises.
So there's elimination.
Then we go and we
score your passions.
We actually take a
look at, all right,
where are you living right now?
Let's take a look at
your top five passions.
Where are you right now, in
reality, on a scale of 0 to 10,
where would you say
you are right now?
And we'd look at each
one of your five,
and you'd score them, and
it takes about a minute.
Let's see, present in
the moment, nope, suck.
All right, I'm about a two.
All right, spending time with
my family, eh, seven, right?
And what is so cool about
scoring one's passion,
and everybody always
has these huge a-has,
is that you can actually
identify whether people
are happy or not just by
looking at their scores.
>>LISA: Interesting.
>>JANET: Because think
about it-- your passions,
what's more intimate to you?
What do you care more
about than your passion?
What you love, the
things that get you out
of bed in the morning.
>>LISA: Right.
>>JANET: So I can immediately
look at someone's passions,
if they're like zero,
two, four, three--
>>LISA: And you'll see.
>>JANET: And I can go,
OK, here's the good news.
That's all good news.
Because it is, right?
Here's the good news.
And then I share with them
how you move these scores up.
And that's part of the whole
training of the Passion Test.
>>LISA: The whole idea.
>>JANET: But isn't that cool?
>>LISA: Yes.
Well, let's take a
look at this video
here of how to
find your passion.
Take a look.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>JANET: And in the Vedas, it
says curving back on myself.
Curving.
Curving back on myself, I create
again and again and again.
And what the Passion Test is,
is one exercise after the other
that you're going
to take today--
we'll see how many I
can get through today--
so that you get this
picture so completely
clear within yourself
that you become
what we call a
passionate magnet.
A passionate magnet where
the people and the places
and the things start to show up.
Now, why this is important is
because your passions are not
personal.
Isn't this interesting?
How many of you think
we exist in isolation?
How many of you know that you're
part and parcel of what science
has been talking about for
now for a long time called
the unified field?
That you are part and parcel of
this incredible unified field
that each and every one
of us affect one another.
How many of you know that?
You affect everyone.
Your passionate
life is about being
the teacher living the teaching.
Being the teacher
living the teaching.
It's about living
in your integrity.
It's about really
being true to you.
And when you're true to you,
moms and dads, what are you
reflecting back
to those children?
And when you're repressing
what your passions are,
you know, and you have this
big cross on your back,
oh, I have to be there for
everybody else, you know?
Notice how angry you are, or
notice how resentful you are.
Notice how your
relationships are
being affected, even
with your children.
Notice.
It's about being conscious.
Just don't take my word for it.
Notice.
Start noticing what happens when
you say yes and you mean no.
Notice.
Is it working for you?
Does it work for anyone else?
My experience is, every
time I stay true to me
and drop in and really say, you
know, what's more important,
you know?
And I choose in favor
of the things that
have greatest meaning
for me, somehow--
and I don't know why
it is-- everybody wins.
And when I say yes and I
mean no, everybody loses.
My company is called
Enlightened Alliances.
When two people come
together to give maximum,
both receive maximum.
How can you give to anyone if
you don't know what they need?
Want to know how
to find out what
they need in a
matter of minutes?
Take the Passion Test.
Give them the Passion Test.
Find out what they care about.
Moms and dads, what would your
relationship with your kids
be like if you said,
honey, I'm going
to give you the Passion Test.
And then you find out what
their passions are and say,
sweetheart, I am going to
do everything in my power
as you are growing
to make sure you
get to live your
passions full out.
I'm going to support
you in any way I can.
And I want you to know
about my passions,
too, so you'll know why
I'm so weird, sweetheart.
Anyway.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
[APPLAUSE]
>>LISA: It looks like the
Passion Test is something that
helps you find your
passion, but it also
helps you discover that
you're not using your passion.
What is the cost of not
living your passion?
>>JANET: Let's see, well, number
one, how about an unlived life?
>>LISA: Ooh.
>>JANET: I mean, how many
of us out there-- I mean,
how many of us
are already going,
you know, let's see,
I'm in my 30s, 40s, 50s,
and I'm still not
singing my song.
And what is that like?
What would that be
like for all of us?
Right?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>JANET: And, you know, I always
tell people, it's not personal.
It's not even personal
because I believe,
and I know you do,
too, that each of us
are part and parcel
of a unified field.
Science has already brought all
this information out, right.
We don't exist in isolation.
So therefore, my living my
passion-- my really-- my being
in tune with what it
is that I care about
is all about how I affect
and treat everyone else.
Because if I wake up in
the morning and my life
sucks and I hate what I'm
doing and I can hardly get out
of bed, and my little kid
comes up to me and says,
hey, mom, and I'm feeling
awful, that little person
is going to get that,
and that little person
is going to go to
school, and they're
going to hit Joey, bam,
or do something, right?
>>LISA: Right.
>>JANET: And then Joey goes
home and screams at his sister,
and his sister goes-- right?
It's this domino awful effect.
And so for each of us it's all
about being in our integrity.
Living a passionate life
is about being integrity.
And my favorite quote that I
always share around the world
is: be the teacher
living the teaching.
Being the teacher living
the teaching-- each of us,
that's our role in life.
What more to aspire
to than someone
who is totally connected to
what it is that we're all about,
to what it is our gifts are.
And what's so
beautiful about that is
there's no competition
when you're being you.
>>LISA: That's true.
That's true.
And it doesn't matter,
no, because you're
in that place of so much bliss.
Well, it surprised
me when I looked
at this next video how many
people are truly not living
that way.
Let's take a look at this video.
>>JANET: Alarming, huh?
>>LISA: Uh-huh.
>>JANET: Yeah.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
There's this Harris
Poll survey that
found that four out of
five working Americans--
and I travel all over the world.
In a month-- no, sorry,
in two and a half weeks,
I'll be in Japan.
After that, in August, Marci
Shimoff and I go to China.
If any of you know who Marci is.
Then after that
I go to Tel Aviv,
then after that I go to Bali.
And I have traveled all over
the world for the last number
of years, and I see that all
over the world, the statistics,
some, and especially in third
world countries, the statistics
are even worse, right?
Can you imagine what
that means to the world
that four out of
five people wake up
not happy, not fulfilled,
and not passionate?
Is it any surprise that we
read what we read and we
see what we see and we
turn on the television?
If you really want to go on a
bummer, it's so easy, isn't it?
You just turn on TV and you just
sit there and watch the news.
And if you sit
there long enough,
you really get to go
into all of your misery.
It's incredible.
So what's so great about this
is that you guys are going
to be these conscious creators
even more than you already are.
But I got to tell you,
the fact that you stopped,
you stepped out
of your busy life,
you walked into this room.
You know, everybody
said they had more
going on than they
needed-- and you're here.
What does that mean about you?
I'll tell you what it means.
It means that you're one of
those eighty-percenters-- one
of those, excuse me,
twenty-percenters.
You're a twenty-percenter, which
means that you are conscious.
You are conscious.
Now you're going to
even get more conscious.
You know, as you
have more knowledge,
you just expand, expand, expand.
What do most people do?
The eighty-percenters, they
wake up in the morning,
and you know them, they turn on
their TV, they watch the news,
they get in their car,
they turn on the radio,
they listen to the
news, they get to work,
they talk to everybody
about the news.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA: Is the
Passion Test something
that you can take online, right?
There's a free assessment
online at thepassiontest.com?
>>JANET: Exactly right.
You can take the
Passion Test online,
you can get a facilitator to
give you the Passion Test,
you can come find me
somewhere in the world--
'cause I'm always, like, out
there on some big old stage.
You can order the Passion
Test book on Amazon,
or, you know, walk into
your local bookstore
and say, get 100 copies.
Everyone should have it.
And take the Passion Test.
And what I always
recommend to people--
take the Passion Test
with someone else.
And the reason I say that
is because, oftentimes, we
aren't really present
with ourselves
or honest with
ourselves, and when
you're having to look in someone
else's eyes, and they say,
what's more important?
This or this?
It makes you more
accountable, and so I really
recommend that people make
sure that they take it
with someone else.
Also, I always say
to married couples,
or couples, don't take
it with each other.
>>LISA: Interesting.
OK, why, right?
Could we do it real quick?
>>JANET: Yeah.
>>LISA: OK.
So here's an example.
So my top five passions
that I think-- I'm
going to do kind of
an abridged version.
>>JANET: Oh, I'm going to
have to remember these, right?
Give me two of them.
>>LISA: Well, two
of them, I mean,
I know that my number
one passion is fun.
I notice this because I
type it a lot in my texts.
I'm constantly
writing the word, fun.
And I started noticing, I
really highly value fun.
I love fun.
And this is fun for me.
Playing with my family is fun.
Going on a mountain
bike ride is fun.
So I would say fun is kind
of my number one passion.
>>JANET: Your number one?
>>LISA: It kind of--
>>JANET: It's my number two.
>>LISA: It's your number two?
>>JANET: Having fun
with everything I do.
It is my number two passion.
>>LISA: Is it really?
>>JANET: I have to have
fun with everything I do.
And if you travel with
me and my friends, like,
I have someone who has
been an assistant who's
been traveling with me.
She always says to everyone,
she has to have so much fun.
Because-- I don't know,
life seems too, you know,
too short if you're
not having fun.
>>LISA: It motivates me.
>>JANET: Well, living a
passionate life, though,
and this is an automatic, right?
And you can see it
in your own life.
When you're really living
the things that you love,
that's joyful, that's fun.
Right?
>>LISA: Uh-huh.
It gives me energy.
>>JANET: I have a good
friend named Deborah.
And Deborah's fun is
working all the time.
But it is her fun.
>>LISA: It's her fun.
>>JANET: She loves it.
It's her juice, and she's
always in a good mood.
So some people's fun
is also very different.
What's your other one?
I'd like to know.
>>LISA: Oh, gosh, I must
say it's family, it is.
>>JANET: Now, is
that number two?
>>LISA: Well fun and family.
I like having fun
with my family.
>>JANET: Yeah, OK, so if you
would write your passion,
it would be, when
my life is ideal,
I'm always having lots of
fun with my family, right?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>JANET: OK, so it's
two different things,
but then you didn't mention
fun with my work, fun
with my this, fun with my that.
Here's what we see
in the Passion Test
when you write your passions.
When you are clear,
what you choose
to have show up in your life
will, and only to the extent
that you're clear.
So we tell people
make sure-- that's
why I say take the
Passion Test three, four
times in the very beginning.
Because what you'll find is
that they start-- they shift
and they morph, and then after
a while though, it's like zoom.
And you really get it.
You're like a samurai.
And there's a saying we
have in the Passion Test:
action engages attention.
Now this is a really
interesting one.
Action engages attention.
What most people think,
and I was brought up,
and you probably
were, too, my dad
would say it takes hard
work to get the job done.
It takes hard work
to get the job done,
and I started really
thinking about that.
Is it hard worth it
gets the job done only?
And then I thought no,
it's consciousness.
It's consciousness.
Conscious awareness.
So when you're engaged in
something you love and you're
100% present with that
thing that you totally love,
it's like a lock, isn't it?
>>LISA: Is that what you
mean by consciousness?
>>JANET: Yeah.
Your consciousness,
your attention,
is a locked onto that thing
that you're passionate about.
Isn't that what happens to you?
>>LISA: Absolutely.
>>JANET: OK, and so
what consciousness
does is it moves those--
it moves that energy,
it moves that passion
to find fulfillment.
And it is so interesting,
you know, because all of you
is focused on what it is
that you choose to manifest.
So consciousness is actually
what I say gets the job done.
>>LISA: Another word
I love is connection.
>>JANET: Yeah, connect--
>>LISA: Conscious connection.
>>JANET: And you think
about it, when you're not
passionate about what you're
up to-- Have you ever been
like that?
>>LISA: Oh, yeah.
>>JANET: Yeah.
You're kind of like
lukewarm, wishy-washy.
What's the outcome of
whatever you're up to?
>>LISA: Mud.
>>JANET: Wishy-washy.
You know, it's not,
like, really fulfilling.
>>LISA: Right.
>>JANET: This is why it's
really important for all of us
to figure out, take time,
step out of our busy life,
and ask ourself, when
my life is ideal--
that's what we start with in
the Passion Test, the very
first step, get a
piece of paper out--
when my life is
ideal, I am-- and then
think of the areas of your
life that are important:
your health, your career,
your spirituality, your fun,
your education, your
environment, where do you live.
>>LISA: We have a slide here
that shows all of those,
so we said we have to think
about our-- these areas
in our life that are important.
Fun, service, education,
spirituality, environment,
career, relationship,
and health.
So when you're
considering your top five,
go after those type--
those categories, right?
>>JANET: Yeah, uh-huh.
Go after those categories,
look at them all,
be really sure when you're
writing your passions down--
here is what always
happens to people--
they write about
three, four, five times
on something they
really care about
in all these different ways.
But it's really
the same passion.
So look at these different
areas and then at least
choose at least one area
to write about, and then
go from there.
And that way you'll
have the full range.
Because in the Passion Test,
what we're trying to do
is to create this
balance in life.
And that's what
you do when you are
you looking at all
these different areas.
Many times when
people are really
focused their-- focus
on their career--
and we've all heard of people
that have jumped out a window,
they had a great career,
they had all the money,
but they didn't have
the relationships.
They weren't connected to self.
And this is why we say look
at all the different areas.
>>LISA: Robin Williams as an
example, and we don't know--
>>JANET: Bummer, huh?
>>LISA: -- his
situation specifically,
but from the outside it
appeared that he had everything.
And from the inside
he was hurting
and didn't maybe have
that close person,
that close connection
that could reflect back
to him what he was
passionate about.
I find myself going
through, you know,
I've done values
classes and all of that.
And they do change.
And about the time-- right now
is about the time in my life
when I'd love to take
this again because I think
I'm going a little
bit too fast and I
need to slow down
and remind myself
what my passions are so I
really say yes to the things
that I'm aligned with
rather than saying yes
for the sake of saying yes.
>>JANET: Yeah, and if I had
been able to sit with Robin
Williams, right, he would have
been able to see when he was
scoring his passions,
right, that--
>>LISA: He was off.
>>JANET: -- that probably
spending time with his family,
or something-- something
there, or, you know,
quality time with my own self
care was like, whoa zero.
OK, I need to put my
attention on that thing.
What you put your attention
on grows stronger.
So that's how you
raise the bar--
how you raise the bar is
you start choosing in favor
of the thing that you're
most passionate about.
And that's what most
people don't do, right?
>>LISA: Right, absolutely.
>>JANET: What most
people don't do is go,
OK, I care about this, I'm
choosing in favor of this.
What most people
do is, God, they
want me to do that so,
God, I probably should,
because I really
want them to love me.
>>LISA: The shoulds.
Ugh.
>>JANET: Yeah, they're
should-ing all over them.
>>LISA: Yes, they're should-ing.
Well, I've gotten
there too, but OK,
so here's a slide her
somebody's top five passions,
so this is an example of when
you write on the top, when
my life is ideal, I am.
And then there's six
here, sorry about that,
and there's being of service.
You can see being a
great partner or wife.
Vibrant health, there's
health in there.
Being in the present moment.
Writing a best
seller-- lot of people
have that as a
goal-- as a passion.
And then education
there as well.
And so is there a specific
way to write these?
Do you write them
in the positive?
Like I notice these
here, you know.
>>JANET: Yeah, absolutely.
Because we've all heard our
word is our wand, right?
>>LISA: Our word is our wand?
>>JANET: "Your
Word is Your Wand."
I read this book by
Florence Scovel Shinn.
I think that's how
you pronounce it.
And, you know, what happens when
you put, when my life is ideal,
I'm out of this job that
totally sucks, I hate it.
Because that's where
the energy goes.
So with the word
suck, with hate.
So you want to make sure that
you take those words that
really thrill you, that
just speak to your soul
because what we
tell people to do,
after you figure out through
this process of elimination,
what your top five passions are,
then write them down on a 3 x 5
card and innocently--
and that's the word--
not straining or
forcing, but innocently
putting your attention on
your top five passions.
And, you know, if you're having
words in there that you have
a big charge on, like
hate or whatever,
then it's not going to
speak to you energetically.
So you want to use words
like fantastic and exuberant
and brilliant and beautiful
and audacious and outrageously
great, right, that speak to you.
So that when you read it,
you're like yes, yes, yes.
>>LISA: So there's a
slide here that talks
about how to actually write it.
To write it in the positive,
you could take a look at that
there.
And basically say
you are happily
working in your ideal career,
I'm in my ideal relationship
and having fun.
>>JANET: Yeah, well,
we tell people write it
as if it's already
happened, right?
Write it as if you're right
there, right now because it's
only a thought.
Most people go, god,
I can't do that.
I said, well it's
only a thought.
It's only a thought.
So why don't you put on
your Mickey Mouse ears
like a little kid would
and have fun with it.
Have that innocent attitude
like a childlike mind.
A child wouldn't go,
I can't have that.
I'm too old.
I'm too this, I'm
too that, right.
But this is what we
do as adults, right,
we start to censor ourself.
>>LISA: What if you want
something intangible,
like energy?
>>JANET: Yeah, so
when my life is ideal,
I'm filled with energy
in every moment.
And then we have a
third-- we haven't even
talked about this-- a third
level, right, remember when
I said it's one exercise after
another to help you clarify
from within yourself so that
you have a clear picture of it.
So we have people make
what we call markers.
Markers are guideposts
or signposts.
They're evidence
that your passion
is being lived full out.
>>LISA: Oh, interesting.
>>JANET: So for
instance, say that you
write down, when
my life is ideal,
I am filled with massive
amounts of energy every day.
OK.
So a marker would
be that thing that
would show that you are
doing that without a doubt.
So massive energy,
a marker would
be people comment every single
day on how much energy they
get from me.
That's a marker.
That's what we call a marker.
A marker says that
that passion is
being lived full
out, no improvement.
Isn't that cool?
>>LISA: So it's reflected
back to you in some way?
>>JANET: Exactly.
So you have to
kind of like-- you
have to step back, you have
to look at that passion,
and you say, OK, if I'm really
living that passion full out,
what would have to happen--
what would happen to me?
OK, I wake up every
morning ready to go.
I mean, like, I
never want to sleep.
Boom.
All of these would be
a marker for having
massive amounts
of energy, right?
I love getting everything
done, and I still
have the room for more.
>>LISA: And I feel good,
yes, and I still have energy.
So that is less tangible than
something like finances, where
you could see a number or have a
certain result of the finances.
But you get reflected
back to you, wow,
you have a lot of energy.
Or you are more resilient
in stressful situations
because you have more energy.
>>JANET: Well, the reason
that we have people
make markers is because
there's this beautiful saying,
it's in the Vedas,
curving back on myself.
The Vedas, by the way,
are the most ancient form
of spiritual literature
known to man,
and there's this saying,
"Curving back on myself,
I create again and again."
So what does that mean?
It means that it's
an inside out job.
Inside out job.
So the reason for the Passion
Test, writing your passions,
writing them in a way that
you really resonate with them,
scoring your passions,
markers-- all
of these different
exercises are so
that you'll have a clear
picture from within yourself.
Because the clearer
that picture is
of your beautiful,
fabulous, ideal life,
you start to magnify those
people, places, and things
to you.
So there's a whole formula
for this in the Passion Test--
intention, attention,
no tension.
>>LISA: We actually
have a video about that.
I want to show that.
You do a great job of this.
Let's take a look at that.
>>JANET: All right, great.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So intention, attention, first
two steps to a passionate life.
And then no tension.
And this is the most
important part of the formula.
And this is where everybody, you
know, I would say this is where
about 80% of the
people kind of space.
They don't get this part.
No tension.
So you know your passions, you
put your attention on them,
you take action, you strike like
lightning in all directions.
You do everything
you know to do.
How many of you have done that
with something you want to do?
Now, here's the
most important part.
Really, the most important part.
Because this is
where the magic is.
The no tension is you surrender.
You let go.
You say, this or
something better.
I mean once you've done all
you can do, for God's sakes,
what can you do?
If you keep doing, it's like
you're straining on the mantra,
right?
That's what I say.
Or you're stepping on the hose.
You know, a hose that's
fill-- you know, that's
you turned on full blast
but you step on it,
you know what happens, right?
It can't flow.
So intention, attention--
the no tension part
is saying this or
something better.
And finally, OK, I've
done as much as I can do,
and then it's time
for me to let go.
And what's so beautiful now--
my left brain guys and women,
I don't know why, because
I'm not a scientist,
but I get emails
every day-- really,
sincerely, every day from all
over the world-- from someone
or lots of people that say this
changed my life financially.
This changed my life, my health.
This changed my life,
my relationships.
What happens when
you surrender is
you create what physics
calls a vacuum state where
the people, and the places,
and things start to show up.
And you know when you're
straining and it's so tight,
no energy can go through.
Have you noticed that?
Nothing can come in.
So how can you notice the
gifts that's always there
if you're so completely tight?
So this is the formula.
[APPLAUSE]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>LISA: So you say
your intention,
and then you go
to the attention.
But what happens-- what's the
difference here between goals
and passion?
Are they the same thing?
>>JANET: Oh my God,
I love that question.
I'm so-- thank you,
thank you, thank you
for asking me that
question because, well,
the difference between
goal and passion,
your passions are what you
love, what you care about.
So say your passion is to
be a Olympic skier, right?
I want to be Olympic skier.
Well, what would your goal be?
If you're a Olympic skier,
I think it would be,
you know, for me, if I wanted
to be an Olympic skier,
let's see, I'd be
about 20 years younger.
But aside from
that, I would, you
know, OK, I'm going
to exercise, and--
>>LISA: Right, train, yeah.
>>JANET: Yeah, I'm going to
train my little brains out,
right?
Six days a week,
eight hours a day.
In the Passion Test,
remember, I shared with you
that we have markers.
So that-- oftentimes, what
people ask us is, well,
what's the difference
between goals and markers?
So your-- you've
got your passion.
I want to be, when my life
is ideal I'm an Olympic gold
medalist.
Your goal.
OK, I'm going to work
my brains out six days
a week training my
little tushy off.
And then a marker would
be, I'm at the podium
receiving the gold medal.
>>LISA: I see.
>>JANET: See, the
marker, again, it
shows you that you are there.
You are there.
And why this is so
important, Lisa,
it's so important because you
can, again, when you can really
see it all the way to
the end, and that's
what markers help a person
do-- they help them really
see-- walk that passion
all the way to the end.
Then, because it's
an inside out job,
you start attracting the
people, places, and things
that you need.
And you also know what to
go for at the same time.
So it gives you
just massive clarity
to create that
thing in your life.
>>LISA: It helps you not
get off track, which is--
>>JANET: It totally-- it
totally helps you get off track.
And I'll tell you,
I'm the passion queen.
I am known as Le Passion Queen.
Now, I can write like, zip, zip,
zip, zip, a hundred passions.
But when I have to
stop and go, let's see,
when my life is ideal,
I'm present in the moment
and loving what is, which
is a top passion of mine--
>>LISA: That's your big?
>>JANET: OK, I have to think,
OK, I'm present in the moment,
and I'm loving what is.
What would have to happen?
And then, OK.
Ah.
People say, geeze, Janet.
>>LISA: You're so present.
>>JANET: This has--
>>LISA: You're so
present with me.
>>JANET: You are so, like, here.
When you're here,
you are so here.
>>LISA: You are.
>>JANET: And I love how, Janet,
you just flow with everything,
got it?
>>LISA: You do.
You absolutely do.
>>JANET: So this
would be a marker.
People comment every
single day, wow.
>>LISA: Yes.
You're in this moment with
me here, you're present,
you're flowing with what is.
>>JANET: Yeah, and when you
can really, like, see it,
it's easier to be
it, too, right?
It's just so much easier,
so it's very, very cool.
Jack Canfield, you
know who he is, right?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>JANET: He's
phenomenally successful,
coauthor of the "Chicken
Soup for the Soul" series,
"Guinness Book of
World Records."
And I gave Jack
the Passion Test,
and he actually said, after
taking the Passion Test,
it changed the way
he lived his life.
And he also said it was markers.
He said Janet,
Janet those markers.
It was the markers that
separated the Passion Test
from anything else out
there because it really
gave a level of clarity
that wasn't there before.
>>LISA: And I read
that, that he changed
the way he related
with his family.
>>JANET: Yeah, he realized that
he wasn't spending as much time
as he wanted to, and
he just went, zoop.
He's actually one of my
Passion Test facilitators.
>>LISA: Oh, he is?
>>JANET: Thank you,
Jack, I love you.
>>LISA: He knows--
>>JANET: Yeah, he
gives the Passion Test.
When I'm in India, I have people
come up to me, and they say,
Jack Canfield gave
me the Passion Test.
>>LISA: You're kidding.
Now you did recently
go to India?
>>JANET: I recently did, yeah.
>>LISA: And you taught
the Passion Test to--
>>JANET: To 2,000 people.
>>LISA: All at once?
>>JANET: All at once,
all these 2,000 Indians.
And it was so great,
it was such a blast.
It was an event put on
by Business Networking
International.
It was the national
event in India.
And it was, like, such a raging
success they asked me to come
back next year, and I'm--
>>LISA: Oh my goodness.
>>JANET: I'm coming
back in March
to give a whole program for
women because they loved it.
You know, I mean,
you can't not love it
because number one-- remember,
my number two passion
is having fun with
everything I do.
So, of course, everybody
there is having a blast.
But not only that.
They feel like they're
walking out with something.
You know, how many times have
you gone to a conference,
and you're sitting there
and you're listening,
and you're listening, and you're
listening, and you're excited,
and you're excited, but then
you walk out and you walk out.
But with the Passion
Test, they're like, OK,
here's some information,
now write your passions.
Here's some information, let's
go and find your top five.
Here's some information, score.
Here's some information,
create your markers.
Here's some information, write
your hundredth birthday speech.
>>LISA: Cool.
Wow.
>>JANET: Yeah, your
hundredth birthday speech.
So I tell everybody,
all right, once you've
got all your passions, once
you know what your markers are,
now write your hundredth
birthday speech
as if someone that
you love is there
at your hundredth birthday.
You're not dead-- good
news-- and they are just
saying, you know, all
the wonderful things
that you've done in your life.
And write it out.
It's like your script
for the next 100 years.
So again, and then
I say, you know,
glorify all your passions and
your markers, just like whoa.
>>LISA: So you put that
into, yeah, into the future,
basically.
>>JANET: That's
exactly it, yeah.
>>LISA: But these-- this
whole idea of, first all,
the people in India,
when they took this,
they walked out probably
changing some way
that they're living
their lives, right?
>>JANET: Oh, massively.
Well, not just
them, I mean, Jack.
It's like people like Jack.
>>LISA: You have
something tangible.
>>JANET: Here's a guy
at the top of his game,
and he realizes, oh my God,
this is affecting my happiness.
We have a friend, both of
us, Marci Shimoff, right,
who we just love and adore,
who, New York Times bestselling
author of "Happy for no Reason."
When Marci was writing
"Happy for no Reason,"
she went and interviewed the
happiest people she could find,
and she calls them
her Happy 100.
And with her Happy
100, what she found
was that they had two
things in common--
this is what I remember.
Marc, I hope it's right.
One was that each
and every one of them
had a way to tap
into self every day.
You know, mediation, some way
to have that direct contact.
>>LISA: Check back in.
>>JANET: That direct
contact, right.
And then the other thing
that they all had in common
was they were all living
their passionate life.
So again, it's not personal.
It's important for
all of us to continue
to clarify what are we
passionate about so that we can
affect others in that really
wonderful, positive way.
And we don't have
to do anything.
All we have to do is be.
I always call it,
this is the recipe
of do less, accomplish more.
>>LISA: So have you
ever had anyone say,
I have no idea what
I'm passionate about.
I don't know.
>>JANET: Oh, like
almost every day.
Because the survey finds
that four out of five
working Americans
wake up every morning.
So I'm constantly
meeting people like that.
I mean, I always intention,
OK, when I get on this plane,
I'm going to sit next to
the most beautiful person
and say to them, so
what's your passion?
Because I love to help
people, I mean, it's just fun,
right, to just
doo, doo, doo, doo.
And this happens quite a lot.
And one of the times,
though, I mean, that I really
found this to be so
was I was in Miami,
I was speaking at an event
for 200 homeless women.
And I was so
excited, because one
of the things that we say in the
Passion Test is your passions
are like bread
crumbs that lead you
onto the path of your destiny.
Your passions
aren't your destiny,
they're bread crumbs
that, as one door opens,
another door closes,
and as you follow
that, you find you're
there at one of your--
you know, at your purpose.
And it could be one of
your life purposes, that's
what I found at this event.
Because I'm standing
there on this stage of 200
homeless women, and I
think, my God my heart
is going to fall out of my body.
Oh my God, this is one of the
things I want to do in my life.
I want to work with
people that really
feel like all hope is lost.
And so I look out at them, and
I'm giving the Passion Test,
and it's actually
going quite well.
And then I say OK, let's
write our passions.
And this one woman
just stands up
and she goes, I-- and she's,
you know, tears in her eyes,
I don't know what
I'm passionate about.
And I stopped for a minute and
I thought, I said, OK, so honey,
I get this, you know, I just
felt like calling her honey.
I said, I've been there.
And I have been there, too.
And I said, so if you feel like
you have no idea what you're
passionate about, and you
don't know what to write
and you look at all this
and it's like really?
How stupid.
Then think about
what you never want
to have happen in
your life again.
And I said, think of
something right now.
Close your eyes.
And I said, can
you find something
you never want to
have happen again?
And she said, yeah.
And I said, what is that?
And she said, I never want
to live on the street.
And I said, OK, what
would be the best
of the best, the 100%
opposite of that?
And she said-- and it
was like a question
for her-- I live in
a beautiful home?
I said, that's right, honey.
You be you.
When you take the Passion
Test, don't compare yourself
to others, don't
try to think you
have to write this beautiful,
outrageously audacious life
that's not yours.
But you be be.
You begin from where
you are right now.
So she wrote this
little thing down.
She got this biggest
smile on her.
>>LISA: Aw, yeah.
>>JANET: And it's real.
And it's totally real,
because the secret
to living a passionate life
helps to redirect all of us.
>>LISA: So do you think that
that would have redirected
that woman to finding a
home because she had hope?
Possibility?
How is that--
>>JANET: Yeah.
What it does for anyone,
it puts their attention
on what they choose
to create instead
of what they don't
want to create--
>>LISA: Which is looping,
which is most likely looping.
>>JANET: So what
is looping, right?
What is that neural pathway?
You know, I don't want
to be on the street,
I don't want to
be on the street.
There's a big groove
going in there.
So all of sudden you
take the Passion Test,
and we say put your attention
on those things, put it--
take your little 3 x 5 card once
you know what you're passionate
about, and you can
tattoo it on your arm--
>>LISA: Where do you put them?
Anywhere?
You put them on your
dashboard, put them--
>>JANET: Keep them
next to your dresser.
No, don't put it
on your dashboard.
Put it on your dresser.
You could, but don't
drive and read.
And put it on your mirror, or
put it on your desktop at home,
right, or in your office,
And put your
attention-- remember
I said earlier, just
easily and effortlessly
put your attention on
what you choose to create.
So what's happening
without straining is
she's starting to
change, and others
change those neural pathways.
Instead of the groove
that's going, I'm homeless,
I'm homeless, I'm
homeless, I live--
>>LISA: So she's
truly doing that.
>>JANET: -- in a beautiful home.
I live in a beautiful home.
And then what I say people,
to start consistently
choosing in favor
of your passion,
and it's not always
easy, you use the secret
to living a passionate life,
which is simply, whenever
you're faced with a choice, a
decision, or an opportunity,
choose in favor of your passion.
Choose in favor of
your passion, right?
So OK, right now she
may be living in a home.
She has a choice,
right, she's, you know,
we always have choices.
OK, if I choose
this, it'll get that.
If I choose that, I'll get that.
>>LISA: Choose in favor of
the opportunities, then?
>>JANET: Yeah, choose
in favor of the thing
that's in the direction
of your passion.
So if you're always choosing
in the direction of what you're
most passionate about, what
happens is you automatically
move your score up, remember,
we're scoring your passions,
and eventually there you are
at the door of your passion.
>>LISA: And the things that
you don't want to do fall off,
because you stay next to the
things you want to do more.
>>JANET: Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
And this is what people-- I
don't know why this happens,
Lisa, I'm not a neuroscientist.
I don't know why, but I
get emails all the time,
thank you Janet.
I just got one the other day, my
husband and I were struggling,
we read "The Passion Test,"
we just did what you said.
We were $500,000 in debt.
Our relationship was
just failing miserably.
And then we just started
using these very simple tools.
And I always say the
Passion Test is a system.
A system.
The acronym for system--
Save Yourself Time, Energy,
and Money.
So the Passion Test, follow
the system of the Passion Test
and it'll take you from
A to B to C to D to E.
And for some reason
it works that way.
>>LISA: That's interesting.
>>JANET: And I get to hear
from people who say it worked,
you know--
>>LISA: System-- save
yourself time, energy, money.
>>JANET: The woman who said,
you know, I'm $500,000 in debt
is no longer in debt
and we're in the black
and living a happy
life together.
>>LISA: It's a
system, interesting.
>>JANET: Isn't that good?
>>LISA: So you also do
this for children, right?
>>JANET: Yeah, oh my God.
>>LISA: The Passion
Test for kids?
>>JANET: Yeah, the
Passion Test for kids.
I mean, usually when the
parents bring the kids,
they're screaming.
Because they don't know
what they're coming to,
they don't want to go, it's
going to take my whole weekend.
>>LISA: It's hard to explain.
>>JANET: I can't
play with my friends.
I hate this.
Right?
>>LISA: Yes.
>>JANET: By the time
they leave, they're
crying because they
don't want to go.
Because the Passion
Test programs,
the whole thing that it
stands for is inspiring
transformation through love.
So imagine walking into
a room full of people
where all you're
getting told and all
you're getting intentioned is
your greatness to come out.
And so-- and these kids,
kids are so much better
than us adults, right?
We get in our heads--
>>LISA: They have more
of a clean slate, yes.
>>JANET: The kids don't
need three steps, you know,
like what's more important,
if you could have this or not
this.
They don't need all of that.
Go they go straight to it.
And when they start getting
clear on what they're
passionate about, they get
so happy and so excited,
and with the little kids,
what we have them do,
we have them come up
with only one passion,
and we do it through-- we write
all these little passions down,
and we go, all right,
if you could have
this one, or this one,
or this one, right,
and then we have them write
out their number one passion.
And then what we have
them do is they draw it.
>>LISA: Oh, great.
>>JANET: Because most children
are really very, very visual,
right?
>>LISA: I'm visual, too.
I would love to draw it, too.
>>JANET: I'm visual.
I drew mine.
>>LISA: Draw fun.
>>JANET: I draw mine, and I'm
living in a log cabin house.
I did a vision board.
There's my log cabin
house on it, right?
>>LISA: Oh, interesting.
>>JANET: And I'm living
in my log cabin house.
It was right on that.
What you put your attention
on grows stronger.
And it's just the way it works.
>>LISA: This is practical
application of that,
and I really appreciate you
coming on and explaining it.
>>JANET: Oh, thank you.
>>LISA: It's such
a great formula,
and you can do it
over and over again.
And how many of us
have lost our passion
that needs to get back on?
And they change and they morph
as you get what you want.
So it's a great, great system,
taught all over the world.
You travel all over
the world teaching it,
and it's a lot of fun.
>>JANET: Yeah, it's fun, and
you know what the most fun is?
Back to the kids.
When you get the kids to
get clear on what they're
passionate about,
you get their parents
to get clear on what
they're passionate about--
>>LISA: It's all aligned.
>>JANET: --you have a bridge.
Because then your
parents can go, honey,
I'm going to make sure that
you live that passion full out.
And there is the bridge.
There's the bridge.
>>LISA: Support.
>>JANET: And all of a
sudden-- I just wrote
this beautiful ebook.
It's called, "I Want for
You What You Want for You."
And I thought about this in
terms of the Passion Test,
how can you want
for anyone what they
want if you don't
know what they want?
So the Passion Test
is the very first step
to helping to support
anyone in the things
that they have the
greatest passion for.
And with your kids, if
you do that with them,
give them this little test?
Oh my God.
>>LISA: That's supportive.
>>JANET: It's the only
test you will never fail.
>>LISA: Ah, that's a good one.
Exactly.
It's a great one to talk to them
about while they're in school.
Well, thank you so
>>JANET: Thanks, Lis.
>>LISA: And I've really
enjoyed talking with you.
I could talk to you
forever; you're fun.
We have that same thing
aligned, fun is our lead.
>>JANET: Yeah, well,
you know, listen to me,
that's your number one
or number two passion.
Mine, too, so give
me five, sister.
I love ya.
>>LISA: Love you, too.
And if you would like to
watch a replay of my interview
with Janet Attwood, you
can go to gaiamtv.com.
And until next time, I
invite you to stay inspired.
[MUSIC PLAYING]